i should read it up here yeah this is tape this is side two of the blocks and interview there is no site uh two on the first tape we go from tape one to tape two okay on assignment hobby turned to obsession for charles l bloxon above it's a photograph who over the past 40 years has tracked black history across the united states canada and europe he amassed a remarkable 20 000 item collection of afro-american materials
which he donated last year to Temple University in Philadelphia, semi-colon.
He serves now as its curator.
College lecturer and author of The Underground Railroad Road in Pennsylvania, comma, Pennsylvania's Black History, comma, and Black Genealogy, G-E-N-E-A-L-O-G-Y, comma, Blockson and photographer Louie, L-O-U-I-E, Greek name, P-S-I, don't write that in, Greek name, P-S-I-H-O-Y-O-S,
located many hiding places of runaway slaves for the article in this issue, period.
Here at Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania, Bloxon visits the property of George Corson, C-R-S-O-N, where abolitionists once gathered and fugitives found shelter, new paragraph.
In a Rochester, New York attic, Bloxon found he couldn't recapture a runaway's experience because the trap door was too small for his six foot three frame.
Quote, if I were escaping, comma, I would have had to find another place to hide.
period, close quote.
In Toronto, a northern destination for escaped slaves, he visited the Underground Railroad restaurant, which displayed memorabilia and features traditional southern cooking.
This is out of National Geographic, right?
Yeah.
Okay, his collecting, new paragraph, his collecting days began as a child when a white teacher told him that there were only a few notable black Americans, comma, such as George Washington Carver, Carver, period.
Challenged, Blockson set out to prove her wrong.
He began to collect books
and soon realized blacks had participated in most famous episodes of American history, including the Boston Massacre.
That's Captain B, Captain M, capital B, capital M. New paragraph.
On road trips as a Penn State fullback, he often left roommates Roosevelt, Greer, G-R-I-E-R, and Lenny Moore, M-O-O-R-E, and prowled bookstores and flea markets.
Later, as a public school counselor, he continued his search, picking up such finds
is a 1632 edition of the works of explorer Leo Africanus, A-F-R-I-C-A-N-U-S, comma, African grammars written by missionaries, comma, American slave narratives, comma, English abolitionist tracks, T-R-A-C-T-S, comma, pro- and anti-slavery essays, sheet music, and art objects.
Quote, new paragraph, quote.
Collecting expeditions have been a delightful diversion, comma, close quote, Mr. Bloxson said, comma, opening quote, helping me to fight ignorance, dash, in many ways, the worst form of slavery, period, close quotes, end of item.
Look, you read the book.
They don't, you know.
I guess you signed the same thing, you know.
My wife, when I told her about you and this collection, and... Oh, keep talking.
Nick, can I forget this?
You got to sign this.
You want me to sign it?
You better sign it.
I'll be honored.
May I have a good chance?
I need a good chance.
Well, whatever you want, one of these or whatever, you know.
Keep talking about your wife.
I'm sorry.
I just told her about the collection, and she is very envious.
She's been with me on a lot of the research.
This is a special person.
He's 98 years old.
I mean, he came into my life, you know, I mean, and he's still living today.
This is what I'm saying, my first start off, I didn't know where my collection would take me, but I just went along with the flow.
And then later, I always remember, I guess, even before the book came out, when it came out, I was thrilled to read it.
of the passage from Jonathan Livingston Segal where it said, it's good to become a collector, for sooner or later you must give what you have unto the world who would have accepted.
Jonathan Livingston Segal, yeah.
About collecting?
Yeah, it's like, it's good to be a searcher, but sooner or later you must become a finer, and then it is well to give what you have found
unto the world who would ever receive it.
That's wonderful.
This is what I, it's like a, it's a guide collection.
Yeah, it's one of the passages, one of my favorite passages, yeah.
Well, that's pretty darn good.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm impressed.
I didn't think that it had that in them.
Yes, I have a matter of fact.
People used to make fun of that.
I know, but I have it in my, in my, in my bathroom on the wall, you know, I mean, as a reminder, you know.
What my collecting is, I've given what I have found,
into the world, whoever would accept it.
You pass it on.
Knowledge was passed on to me, like you're talking about Rosenbach, Rosenwald, and all of the collectors, you know.
Now here, your collection is going to join this massive, you know, and you get... It's an honor.
You know, I'm so proud.
And you know what pleases me?
They were timid when they were asking me about this.
And I said, are you kidding?
I've got thousands of pages of manuscripts, of transcripts,
which i will only realistically be able to use four or five percent in my book the thought that this stuff is going to have another life yes that's what it's all about somebody can go there and i'll start it ed wolf died some of the people i met a lot of people along the way and one of the women that uh i owe a lot of respect for ellen shaper from formerly of the free library of philadelphia who uh nominated me for the um
Bibliographical Society of America.
She recognized my name.
She also asked me so that I was able to participate in the Bibliographical Society.
It was through Ellen Schafer encouragement.
We had a book.
She asked me to have an exhibition on black books at the Free Library shortly two years, a year before she left to go out to California.
It was called Books by Blacks at the main library.
And ever since then, I had about four other exhibitions.
We had a great one from Marian Anderson last year.
I learned to appreciate the different types of unique people in the world of books.
Of course, I knew Edwin Wolfe.
I give him credit in the book here when he encouraged me to do a black 100, as you call it, 101 books by black.
You know, back in 1977, he said, Charles, why don't you do a book about 100 books that afforded black history?
So I just took it to tell us years later, 1989, and there's this book, and I gave it to Mr. Wilson, and also Leslie Rosenwald.
I was able to see a month before he died, and I asked him about an idea of doing a book.
He said, a book of this nature, no...
more or less for stimulating interest to become a well-soyed item.
So I had the influence of several great men, Hal Heaney.
Lessing Rosenwald, by the way, Greg, and that hasn't heard his name yet because he's deceased.
Yes.
But he very much is in my book.
I have his book, Recollections of a Collector.
Well, I want that.
I've been looking for that book.
McManus has one.
Show him.
He sent me a card.
You gave me Clarence?
Yeah.
How much do you want for it?
A couple hundred.
Wait, am I going to call Clarence?
He sent me a card, and I meanwhile got another copy of it from somebody else, from Bob Fleck got me a copy.
Yeah, for 200?
He quoted it to me for 200.
It's really good, isn't it?
I'm glad that you told me that.
You know, but meeting people like Edward Wolfe and Hal Heaney, he used to be the librarian for Thomas Freeder, you know, he had this free library after, well, Alan Schaefer was there, but Hal Heaney,
around here.
It was like a mecca for collectors.
It's a part, even the black collectors, the Robert Adgers and the Adelman, and I knew Robert Pervis.
In other words, on the black side, where most of the white collectors were collecting because it was the magnificent diversion.
The black collectors who started here, you know, I didn't realize later until I was living in a city, although I was coming from my hometown, Norristown, 18 miles away into the city, I was fell bound to know that there were black people here.
The hub of book collecting in America, black America, started here in the city of Philadelphia when I heard the name of Robert Adger, A-D-G-E-R, and William Dorsey, and Leon Gardner.
and people like that.
And I said, on the other hand, I heard of Roosevelt and, you know, and Wolfe and others.
I mean, Ed Newton.
Edward Newton lived in the main line.
Yes.
And the one who wrote the, you know, in the bookstore.
I mean, the great writer.
I mean, Christopher Wallow.
I mean, all these collectors.
In other words, I was in the middle on both sides.
I was surrounded.
is that once I start to read books about books, I have a small collection of books about books.
I'm also drawn to writers of the 1920s.
I hate to call them expatriates, but people, Americans who lived abroad, you know, during the 20s.
I was always into the, you know, the writing besides the Hemingway, but some of the black writers in Europe and that whole period of the Great Gatsby.
I'm drawn to people like Nancy Kennard,
I have her monumental book, Negro, that she did in 1934.
She wasn't bipolar, was she?
No, she was white, but she had a profound influence.
I have Paul Robeson's copy of $3,000 I paid for it.
I searched the book for five years, six years, and I finally got it.
His personal copy of Nancy Canard's book, Negro, that she did on the H.A.R., H.A.R., H.A.R., Press,
to prove the fact to her mother and other members of nobility that African people of African descent had in history.
So I had that.
And I was drawn, then I started to, in other words, as I
with my books of the 20s, like, you know, like, what's her name, the Crosby's, and the Kate Boyle, and all those people, and Bernard Shaw, and the one, Ulysses, and all, but see, I, James, James, when Robeson went there in 1930, I began to realize that many of the books that were written by, say, some of the white writers did not mention these black friends of these people.
Then I realized that
All these great minds, they met together at parties and so forth.
And then some people would talk about their black friends in Europe at the same time, the same party.
And Carl Van Vechten in New York City, his great parties and so forth.
So when I took the A train to Harlem and, you know, following Duke Ellington was my first time going to Harlem, you know.
So I went up alone.
I went up in the car, you know, a couple of times.
I was in my greatest pool in New York.
Whenever I went to New York, I was more or less always.
I would go to two places.
One, Granny's Village.
I was always drawn to Granny's Village, even in high school.
Then secondly, Harlem.
Granny's Village for the coffee houses.
I have this awkward card side in the jazz and the arts, you know, and the bookstores and all that, you know, the coffee houses.
especially when in the 60s and late 50s, you know, the corner of McDougal, Bleigo, Brienzes and all those places.
But they had all those bookstores in the village.
Then I would go up to Harlem.
I would go to Mr. Lewis McShaw.
I have to get to the name.
I'll find it.
M-I-C-H-E-A-U-X, I think it is.
Oh, I've seen the name.
Yeah, Lewis McShaw, who had his
The National Memorial Bookstore in Harlem, but I think I sent you information on that.
Yeah, I've got that.
We're all these great people.
I met Malcolm X there.
You know, Mr. Michaud introduced me to Malcolm X. I met a lot of the writers.
I met Langston Hughes there.
Then I began to meet writers.
Now I'm called...
Well, the premier collector, I mean, from my A class.
I started so young.
I picked you out of that book.
Yeah, but I started so young.
This is the number one guy, right?
Nick, I didn't look at it that way.
I picked you as the first team.
No kidding.
Oh, yeah.
I said, this is the guy I got to see.
I can't do all of them.
No, no, no.
And that's one thing that my publishers like.
I'm not trying to do a survey of every important book collector.
That's boring.
You know, I want to tell a nice story.
grouping of stories.
Well, is there any other thing that I have missed?
Yeah, there are a few things, and then I'll... I'm driving back today, and I know you're tired, too.
I have to go to one meeting or two.
Okay, so we can do... I think we can wrap it up in ten minutes.
Yeah, go ahead.
That's fine, yeah.
But two things.
Number one, it's very interesting that this is a collection that is still growing.
This is not a collection that you turned over to Temple, and here it is, Temple,
You also have come in, and you're still building the collection.
Yes, I am.
It is an evolving, organic collection.
Plus, I have an auxiliary collection I've kept for myself.
What's that?
You mean auxiliary collection?
I know.
I'm curious, so I'm smiling.
Well, I don't say too much about it, but, you know, when I started collecting, there were so many duplicates, you know, books like Zora, Z-O-R-A-N-E-A-L-E, Hurston, H-U-R-T-O-N,
She's very popular now, but I used to give away books.
I have a habit of giving away Christmas.
People who love books, I mean, I cannot go to a flea market or a bookstore to see a book that I could afford a remainder and not, you know, but I get them because I just hate to see black books, but I get them, and people who love books, I do, but all going aside, I always, I had this duplicates before I kept my other collection in a garage that I had.
You know, I donated that.
I mean, I could exist without books.
I mean, they're my soul.
So I donated this sign, but I have my auxiliary collection also.
What is the auxiliary collection?
Duplicates?
Well, not quite duplicates.
Some of them are duplicates, but other things I've been buying.
I've been going here almost nine years, but I've been buying, I think, at a flea market.
I've donated to Temple.
It's something that I think should be in here.
I put in here, but I always...
I always had the personal collective.
I had, you know— You're starting to tell me exactly what the focus is of the exhibit in the literary collection.
It's the same focus.
I collect the whole—I mean, it's more—no, I must repeat.
It's narrow.
I mean, I have to simplify it more.
It's books that I feel that I want to read, because I read a lot, you know?
I mean— One of my guys, one of my collectors is Chef Zafmari.
You ever heard of him?
No, you name— Chef Louis Zafmari.
Oh, my.
He's a Hungarian immigrant.
Uh-huh.
He came here.
And he went and he built a wonderful, looks like a walrus with a big chef's hat, big mustache, and he speaks with a Hungarian accent.
And he put together the finest culinary collection in the world, one of them is the finest.
And he just gave it to the University of Iowa.
He put together the finest Hungarian collection.
He just gave that to the University of Chicago.
He had Brahms and Beethoven stuff.
He gave that to, where did he give that?
Some of that went to Boston University.
And he just gave a bunch of
cooking artifacts, a million things, like, and that don't transcribe all the menus and things, a million things, to this university in Providence, Johnson and Wales.
I know what it is, yes.
And, but he talks, and I said, have you given everything?
And he said, yes, I'm glad, he said, I kept a few for myself.
The point is that I smile.
I said, every collector, Thomas Jefferson, he said, of course, Thomas Jefferson, the day after he gave his books, the day, I mean,
to the Library of Congress when he sold them, he started building the next library, which became Charlottesville.
That's right.
The day after Jerome Curran sold his books in 1929, he was out the next day buying books.
It's a crutch instinct, isn't it?
Well, I mean, you know, it's wonderful.
It's in our blood.
Yes.
And the thing of it is, it's not inherited.
I don't think that it goes on from generation.
It is innate.
It's innate.
You're right.
Because what's the first thing so many children do when the old man dies?
Sell it.
Sell the things.
Yes.
That's his worth money.
You know, most often.
Yes.
You have Bill Scheide, who's the third generation.
I've interviewed Bill Scheide.
He held his Gutenberg Bible.
Oh, man.
Well, see, I can't wait for this book, you know.
And it's not just collectors.
It's people like Ellen Schaefer, Eddie Wolfe.
It's book people.
It's book sellers.
I've been to all the major institutions.
I've been into the vaults at the Newbury.
I've helped Caxton.
Oh, man.
You've been to Bae Sambuk?
I've handled Bae Sambuk.
I've handled Chamberlain, Food Chamberlain.
I've been in the vaults at Houghton Library.
Oh, good.
You know, she's called you.
She's going something on the slave trade in Cuba for a dissertation.
Sometimes here is like,
I have to answer about 20, 40, 50, Black History Month.
It's like some of the 25 questions, you know, within two or three hours.
My mind, what I'm saying, another reason that I'm glad I started reading what I did, when people come in here to ask questions, which the libraries don't know or whatever, they come to me, although I've collected in literature, poetry, the Caribbean, Africa,
slave diaries, military.
When people call me, they call from all over the world.
I have them, people say, have you read all your books?
I mean, you had that too.
I said, no, I haven't read all these books.
I've collected, as a collector, I know what's in all these books.
Winston Churchill, Winston Churchill said, a gentleman does not have to have, should not be expected to read all his books.
He should be expected to know what he has and how it can help him.
That's right.
What he has, where he can find it, and when he needs it, and how it can help him.
And that's how I look at my library.
If all of a sudden I'm writing a story about Clarence Darrow, I've got a biography of him.
I haven't read it, but I will quick enough.
But you know where it is.
And I know where to grab it, you know, and it's there for my use.
But also here, Nick, how can anybody read 80,000 books?
You can't do it, but the thing about...
People say, you have a photographic mind, but I love books.
Books are drawn to me, as I said.
But my thing here, 97% of the people who come here, I can help.
I have information.
The others, I can tell them where to go.
People say, you're a good research person.
I can tell them books.
I know libraries, books, and so forth.
So then the other percent, I can help.
See, you are as much a resource as your books.
Yes.
It's coming to me now.
It's just being circled.
Yes.
Remember, did I show you that article?
I don't know if I showed you this one here.
I forgot.
I can't give you this one, didn't I?
No.
I'll take that.
This article will tell you.
Okay.
One other thing, and then I'm on my way.
This is a dream job for you.
This is not even a job.
No.
What you have here, what temple... It's good for my soul.
But I mean, here you are.
working at something that's your life.
My life.
My books are my life.
But to be able to temple also, this has been a dream for you, hasn't it?
Yes, and like people said, it's been a dream for a temple, because the temple's located in an urban community.
And you wanted that, too, didn't you?
Yeah, people, I mean, you remember, I said in my thing, the reason I wanted the access for people from all races, creeds, and colors, you know, it's in an eastern, northeastern corridor between Washington and New York, and so forth, and it's like...
In Boston, you know.
Pittsburgh, Philly.
Yes.
And the university, I mean, they have been generous with me as far as supporting me and so forth.
And the president of the university, I would say, Peter Lee, of course, is my number one fan, you know.
Can you spell his name for my name?
Oh, here we go with Peter's name.
I've got it in it, I'll get it.
But you'll have to, like, I'm surrounded by Greeks here, you, and Italian.
I-X-U-U-R-S, I'm sure.
Yeah.
He wrote something in here, too.
A statement in the book.
One quote.
Did you want to see that one in this book that he said?
Okay.
What else, Nick?
You were saying something else you wanted to... Just the fact that this position, this setup with Temple is a...
Yeah, it's something that I created, you know, I mean, there's many places that wanted to come.
Did Temple propose this to you?
No, it was like they wanted me back in 73 when the other library was here.
There was, like, pressure.
There was a lot of controversy here at the university before I came here.
As a result from the question being here, we have the first African-American doctoral program.
You mean pressure on the university to become more involved with the community?
Yes.
They need an urban... Yes, they had it before, but they couldn't for the last 18 years ago.
I mean, 15 years ago.
They had controversy with black study programs involved.
I do have to type with Peter.
Yeah.
In that way, he'll tell you more.
But this collection, as a result, we have a Center for African Americans.
Don't worry about it.
Don't get it.
As I said, I mean, going back to my early days when I was a child, before as a minister, then archaeologist, historian, it's like, it's all combined, you know.
I guess I represent the, you know, the characters in the, in Chaucer, you know, the one with the, with the minister, with the minister?
The partner, the partner, yeah, and the teacher.
The one with, what was the quote I was going to use?
The one, I have the quote, and I can't think, where he teaches and the other preachers, you know, I mean, the Canterbury Tales were always one of my favorites, you know.
And oftentimes I go back, you know, and read them, because a lot come out of it, you know.
Even the erotic book, I wrote a chapter in this book on erotica.
My book is called, my chapter in the book is called
African-American Erotica and Other Curiosities.
The subtitle, The Black of the Berry, the Sweet of the Juice.
Black of the Berry, the Sweet of the Juice.
Which is all folks say from black people.
The Black of the Berry, the Sweet of the Juice.
And the subtitle, the title is African-American Erotica and Other Curiosities.
And where did I get the other curiosities from?
You see in the book catalog, Curioso.
So therefore, I trace
the history of black books of African American erotica from Alpha Ben, this woman who wrote the famous book on Oroko in 1600.
You know, I tell the people, where did you get the information?
I got it through reading.
They said, well, you have opened up a new life.
I said, well, people could start collecting erotic black.
It's scholarly, from scholarly all the way down.
I speak in the Hottentot Woman, for instance.
You know the Hottentot Woman, the origin of the Hottentot Woman?
The origin of, you know, the bustle, the bustle, the women used the bustle.
B-U-S-T-L-E.
Well, the bustle, the idea came when the English colonization people among who colonized, you know, Africa, they brought the Hottentop woman over from South Africa.
She had those big, wide buttocks and thighs.
When she walked, you know, she wobbled.
She was a thin waist, you know, that she was...
They were, the men were so excited over her, they displayed her in Europe, in England, and so forth, and the women became jealous.
So the women create the bustle, you know, the bustle?
Because when you see the walking of the bustle, it comes from the hot and hot woman in Africa.
They call it the bustle.
So, I mean, what I'm saying to you is that from these things, you know, one thing you learn another.
So I bring it all the way down in my chapter to Chester Hine and even, um,
Samuel Delany is a noted African-American science fiction writer.
But he also wrote a science fiction book on erotica, the base of erotica.
So what I'm saying to you, as a collector, and you as a collector, some collectors are narrow-minded, I must, I'm glad I have an open mind, because as a result,
In collecting, I'm able to satisfy so many people coming home in many, many areas, you know, from children books I have.
You see, there are so many collectors who won't let anybody see anything.
I know.
I couldn't be that way.
You know, Folger, I mean, for years he wouldn't let people look at his folios.
What about Sir Thomas Philip?
I thought he was crazy.
Yes.
But what about some of the women collectors?
I've tried and found a couple.
What about Ruth Adamite?
You're going to see her, too?
No.
You mean Adamite.
She's the one in Cleveland who has the miniature collection.
I'm supposed to go.
Everybody says I should go to Cleveland.
Ms.
Ruth, I mean Ruth Adamite.
H-E-A-N-I-T-E-A.
Yeah, Adamite.
She's in Cleveland.
You're not the first one to tell me about her.
No.
I spoke at the Roe File Club.
You know that?
Yeah.
Bill Moffat.
You know Bill out at the Huntington?
No, I don't think I know.
He's the guy.
He says, Nick, you've got to go to Cleveland.
He needs to go over at the Huntington Library.
But you should go to the Row Fund Club, you know.
And I had the opportunity to speak in there.
As a matter of fact, they gave me the history of the book.
I was the second black speaker, Charles W. Chestlett.
All the Chestlett books are there.
He was a member of it.
And I got into the Row Fund Club, you know, through Miss Bruce Adamite and her connection.
Bill Moffat mentioned her.
And she knows Ellen Schaefer.
You know, you have the... Yeah, she must be up in age, but she... Gotta be Cleveland.
Yeah, you didn't even call her, Nick, because she doesn't...
I think she said at the time she could dedicate her book to Radcliffe or one of those Seven Sisters schools, Smiths or whatever, you know.
Bryn Mawr Bassett.
New England is the one that she's going to do.
Mount Holyoke, maybe?
I think it was Smith College, I think she said.
Smith was out in Western Mass.
Yeah, I think she was out there.
Probably because Ruth Mortimer is there at Smith and she's a crackerjack.
Maybe that's what it is, yeah.
Ruth is very good at getting stuff.
No kidding.
Yeah.
Well, I think I better— I've got to hustle.
I'm going to work out what you're going on.
I just can't.
Thank you.